README.md, before:

# Function-based MapReduce
## How to use
In order to use this program, you must first set it up. First, you have to upload the WordCount and CountingWords map functions as well as the Reducer function to the IBM Functions service. Then, you have to fill the file `secret.yaml` with the corresponding parameters (urls, keys, etc). Finally, run the orchestrator.

```
python3 orchestrator.py CW|WC <bucket_name> <file_name> <npartitions>
```
 *The result file will state the mapper used and the name of the input file (i.e. WordCount-bible.txt)*
##### Examples:
&NewLine;
```
python3 orchestrator.py CW mybucket1 essay.txt 30
```
```
python3 orchestrator.py WC largeTextFiles bible.txt 5
```
---
## Explanation
MapReduce is a programming model and implementation to enable the parallel processing of huge amounts of data. In a nutshell, it breaks a large dataset into smaller chunks to be processed separately on different worker nodes and automatically gathers the results across the multiple nodes to return a single result. 

In this case, our model consists of 3 parts: *Splitting*, *Mapping* and *Reducing*. Each of these parts take place on different parts of the program. 

The Splitting part occurs in the orchestrator. The orchestrator is the *main* program, which uploads the desired text file to the cloud, dispatches *n* map functions on the cloud and eventually calls the *reducer* that fetches all the partial results and merges them into the final result. The Mapping part happens when the *mappers* get called. These mappers process a chunk of data each one specified by the orchestrator (that chunk of data is calculated based on the number of partitions that the user specifies as a parameter). After a mapper has completed its process, it uploads its result to the cloud and notifies the reducer via the queue system. While these mappers are working, the orchestrator has already called the reducer on the cloud. This one is waiting synchronously for messages on the queue. These messages contain the name of the result file on its body, so that the reducer downloads it and accumulates it in a temporary variable that will get uploaded again to the cloud when it has finally received all the mappers' results.

## Our MapReduce
The objective of this practical assignment was to write the whole MapReduce system with two implementations of the map function. These map functions are the following ones:

**CountingWords**: Counts the total number of words in a text file. For example, given the following text: "I love Distributed Systems", the output of CountingWords should be 4 words.

**WordCount**: Counts the number of occurrences of each word in a text file. For instance, given the following text: "foo bar bar foo", the output of WordCount should be: bar, 2; foo, 2.

The program had to be able to scale depending on the number of partitions or threads specified by the user.

We decided to implement the orchestrator as a Pyhton class, so that it cloud be used for different approaches in the future. However, we also provided a *main* program for testing.

### Performance, speedup

In order to ilustrate a small example of how this MapReduce scales, we tested it with different numbers of partitions. We collected the execution times and drew an orientative graph for each of the mappers (based on real results, nonetheless). It compares the speedup and the number of partitions. 

![CW Graph](/cw-speedup-graph.png)

![WC Graph](/wc-speedup-graph.png)

The test was run using a text file (concatenations of books made by our lab professor) of around 1GiB size as a target.  
By the way, as seen on the graphs, we calculated the speedups according to the run time of a 10 partition execution because the file is too big and the functions have the maximum memory capped to 2048MiB. Also, the time recordings are from right before dispatching the mappers on the orchestrator to just after receiving the message from the reducer.

---

### Technologies Used
- [IBM Cloud Object Storage](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/object-storage)
- [IBM Functions](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/functions)
- [RabbitAMQP](https://www.rabbitmq.com/#features)
- [Python](https://www.python.org/)

### Authors
Pol Roca Llaberia (<pol.roca@estudiants.urv.cat>)

Marc Bachs Ciprés (<marc.bachs@estudiants.urv.cat>)

Commit message:

Reduced images, added license at README.md end

README.md, after:

# Function-based MapReduce
## How to use
In order to use this program, you must first set it up. First, you have to upload the WordCount and CountingWords map functions as well as the Reducer function to the IBM Functions service. Then, you have to fill the file `secret.yaml` with the corresponding parameters (urls, keys, etc). Finally, run the orchestrator.

```
python3 orchestrator.py CW|WC <bucket_name> <file_name> <npartitions>
```
 *The result file will state the mapper used and the name of the input file (i.e. WordCount-bible.txt)*
##### Examples:
&NewLine;
```
python3 orchestrator.py CW mybucket1 essay.txt 30
```
```
python3 orchestrator.py WC largeTextFiles bible.txt 5
```
---
## Explanation
MapReduce is a programming model and implementation to enable the parallel processing of huge amounts of data. In a nutshell, it breaks a large dataset into smaller chunks to be processed separately on different worker nodes and automatically gathers the results across the multiple nodes to return a single result. 

In this case, our model consists of 3 parts: *Splitting*, *Mapping* and *Reducing*. Each of these parts take place on different parts of the program. 

The Splitting part occurs in the orchestrator. The orchestrator is the *main* program, which uploads the desired text file to the cloud, dispatches *n* map functions on the cloud and eventually calls the *reducer* that fetches all the partial results and merges them into the final result. The Mapping part happens when the *mappers* get called. These mappers process a chunk of data each one specified by the orchestrator (that chunk of data is calculated based on the number of partitions that the user specifies as a parameter). After a mapper has completed its process, it uploads its result to the cloud and notifies the reducer via the queue system. While these mappers are working, the orchestrator has already called the reducer on the cloud. This one is waiting synchronously for messages on the queue. These messages contain the name of the result file on its body, so that the reducer downloads it and accumulates it in a temporary variable that will get uploaded again to the cloud when it has finally received all the mappers' results.

## Our MapReduce
The objective of this practical assignment was to write the whole MapReduce system with two implementations of the map function. These map functions are the following ones:

**CountingWords**: Counts the total number of words in a text file. For example, given the following text: "I love Distributed Systems", the output of CountingWords should be 4 words.

**WordCount**: Counts the number of occurrences of each word in a text file. For instance, given the following text: "foo bar bar foo", the output of WordCount should be: bar, 2; foo, 2.

The program had to be able to scale depending on the number of partitions or threads specified by the user.

We decided to implement the orchestrator as a Pyhton class, so that it cloud be used for different approaches in the future. However, we also provided a *main* program for testing.

### Performance, speedup

In order to ilustrate a small example of how this MapReduce scales, we tested it with different numbers of partitions. We collected the execution times and drew an orientative graph for each of the mappers (based on real results, nonetheless). It compares the speedup and the number of partitions. 

![CW Graph](/cw-speedup-graph.png)

![WC Graph](/wc-speedup-graph.png)

The test was run using a text file (concatenations of books made by our lab professor) of around 1GiB size as a target.  
By the way, as seen on the graphs, we calculated the speedups according to the run time of a 10 partition execution because the file is too big and the functions have the maximum memory capped to 2048MiB. Also, the time recordings are from right before dispatching the mappers on the orchestrator to just after receiving the message from the reducer.


### Technologies Used
- [IBM Cloud Object Storage](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/object-storage)
- [IBM Functions](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/functions)
- [RabbitAMQP](https://www.rabbitmq.com/#features)
- [Python](https://www.python.org/)

---

## Authors
Pol Roca Llaberia (<pol.roca@estudiants.urv.cat>)

Marc Bachs Ciprés (<marc.bachs@estudiants.urv.cat>)

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](/LICENSE) file for details
